## Introduction
With the immense popularity of ride sharing services, more and more people use services like Uber. It is an online marketplace for riders and drivers. Normally a rider uses his smartphone app to request rides. Ride requests are assigned to a Uber driver, who uses his own vehicle to provide the ride. Low cost, short waiting time, availability as well as the convenience of simplified ride requests and easy payment are considered the main reasons of Uber’s popularity among the riders. On the other hand, the flexibility of work schedule, higher compensation rates and independence attract a lot of part time and full time drivers to contract with Uber. Students, professional drivers or people in-between jobs share their ride to earn some extra cash. As an independent worker, a driver would always want to fill the car with passengers to maximize profit. But it is not always easy to find a rider. Especially for a new driver in a new city. We analyzed Uber historic data in New York city and built a web application. Based on the holiday or workday and different time of the day, we suggest a location to the driver which is not very far away from the current location and has the higher probability of getting a ride.

## Data
In 2015, by filing a Freedom of Information Law request the news and analytics website FiveThirtyEight obtained historical [Uber Data](https://www.kaggle.com/fivethirtyeight/uber-pickups-in-new-york-city?select=uber-raw-data-may14.csv) in New York City from the NYC Taxi & Limousine Commission. From this data set we used pickups from April, 2014 - September, 2014. In this dataset we have GPS coordinates of the pickup location as well as time and date when the pickup happened. We used another [dataset](https://data.world/cegomez22/dimdate) from data.world to verify if the corresponding pickup date was a holiday or not in New York City.

We consider three attributes in our real dataset.
1. **Location** is a pair of float variables indicating the Latitude and Longitude. In our dataset Location is from where Uber picked up the passenger. In the output we also provide a location as the destination.
2. **Hour** is the time of the day when pick up has happened. We divide the day in 24 hours. So the Hour variable can take values between 0-23. We need Hour as a different attribute because depending on the hour of the day pickup frequency can differ.
3. **Holiday** is a boolean variable. True if the day is a holiday and false if not. Also depending on the holiday pickup frequency can differ. During the holiday people tend to stay awake late at night.

After cleaning and merging the data, we have a total of 4.5 million Uber pickup points in New York City. We chose a subset (around 3%) of the data randomly for our project.
